&tex=Rome under the Kings
The early history of Rome is very vague.  Most of the records from the early period were lost when Rome was sacked by the Gauls in 390B.C.  The Romans had many stories about the beginnings of the city.  The most famous one tells us of Romulus and Remus, the twins who were found and cared for by a she-wolf.  Traditionally Romulus founds Rome in 753B.C. and becomes the first of seven kings to rule Rome.
The Romans believed that the first conquests were made in this period and also associated the first city wall with the sixth King, Servius Tullius.   The last King of Rome was Tarquinius Superbus (Tarquin the Proud).  The sources tell us that he was overthrown in 510B.C. because he was cruel and the people wanted more say in how the city was run.  
The Roman Republic
The early history of Rome is very vague.  Most of the records from the early period were lost when Rome was sacked by the Gauls in 390B.C.  The last King of Rome was Tarquinius Superbus (Tarquin the Proud).  The sources tell us that he was overthrown in 510B.C. because he was cruel and the people wanted more say in how the city was run.  
From 510B.C. until 31B.C. Rome was governed as a Republic.  A group of the most important men in the city, called the Senate, made the decisions and led the armies in Rome’s many wars.  The city of Rome gradually expanded to form an empire which stretched from Spain in the East to the western edges of Greece, and from north Africa to the north of Gaul (modern-day France).
In the first century B.C. Rome’s generals started to take more personal control of the armies.  This led to certain men taking control away from the Senate.  One man in particular looked as though he would take complete control of the Roman world on his own.  His name was Julius Caesar.  Many people in Rome did not like this situation and felt that Caesar was trying to make himself King.  As a result many of the Senators plotted to kill Caesar.  He was murdered on the 15th March 44B.C.  His death brought civil war to the Roman world and marked the beginning of the end for the Republic.
The Roman Empire
Julius Caesar was murdered in 44B.C.  His death marked the beginning of a period of civil war in the Roman world.  At the end of the war, one man took control of the Roman Empire.  He was Caesar’s nephew, Octavian.  In 27 B.C. the Roman Senate offered him the name Augustus and he became the first emperor of Rome.  
The Roman Empire became stronger under the emperors for a period of about two hundred years.  Rome was well known for its magnificent buildings, poetry, strong government and the use of new technology.  The city of Rome was home to about a million people and trade was very important as the city needed constant supplies of food.  Trade routes were established all around the empire.
From A.D.226 foreign tribes started to attack the empire and gradually the empire declined.  From A.D.410 onwards the empire became very difficult to govern.  Continued attacks from foreign tribes and weak emperors led to the final collapse of the empire in A.D.476.