&tex=After the death of Muhammad, to whom the Islamic religion was first revealed in AD 622, the leadership of the Islamic community passed to his father-in-law, who was given the title caliph, or successor. This was the start of the caliphate, which was intended to be the ruling power in the Islamic world and lasted from AD 632 until 1258, after which it was eventually claimed by the Ottoman Turks. 
Within one hundred years of Muhammad’s death, the Arab armies had conquered large areas and created an empire that stretched from India to Spain. The rule of the empire fell to the caliphate. There are three caliphates that stand out. The Patriachal or Orthodox Caliphate, which began with Muhammad’s father-in-law, lasted from AD 632-661. During this period the capital of the caliphate moved from Arabia to Iraq. 
The next caliphate was called the Umayyad and lasted from AD 661-750. The Umayyad rulers were based in Damascus, Syria and they continued to expand the Islamic empire during their rule. 
The ‘Abbasid Caliphate followed the Umayyad and lasted from AD 750-1258. During this time the caliphate founded its capital at Baghdad, Iraq. In the tenth century much of the empire was ruled by local families as the power of the caliphate had been weakened, with the army having increasing control over the caliphs. In Egypt, the Fatimid Dynasty established an empire which did not recognise the authority of the ‘Abbasid Caliphate.
From the eleventh century onwards, the Islamic empire was under threat. The Christian crusaders came from western Europe to try to recapture the Holy Land from Muslim control, but were defeated by Saladin. However, from the east came the Seljuk Turks who conquered all of the Middle East and Asia Minor. They took control of this area but left the caliphate intact as the ruling power in Islam. The ‘Abbasid Caliphate was finally brought to an end by the Mongols, who had been encouraged to invade to end Turkish rule. The Mongols killed the caliph in Baghdad in 1258. A member of the Abbasid dynasty later established himself as caliph in Cairo under the rule of the Mamluks, but his successors were overcome by the Ottoman Turks, who transferred the caliphate to Istanbul. It continued here until the twentieth century, but most people did not recognise the Ottoman caliphs.