&tex=With the collapse of the Mycenaean civilization in about 1200 BC, historical records of the area we know as Greece were lost.  This period in Greek history is known as the Dark Age, not because the people were less intelligent or civilized, but because we have no written records for the period.  People still traded, and architectural styles were changing, with buildings becoming larger and more elaborate.  
We have no artefacts on which writing exists from the Dark Ages, but one important development did take place.  By the early eighth century a common alphabet was being used across Greece.  It had been adapted from the Phoenician alphabet and allowed one of the greatest pieces of Greek literature to be recorded.  The legendary poet Homer took the stories of the Trojan war and wrote down a version called the Iliad which means ‘the story of Troy’.  This work tells the story of a war between the Greeks and the Trojans which supposedly took place in the twelfth century BC. There is, however, also much in the story that can tell us about life in the eighth century.  
Architecture in Ancient Greece developed to a very high standard and the style of some buildings constructed in the Greek world has been copied by the architects of more recent times. This classical style of architecture is clearly shown in some religious, monumental buildings, including the Parthenon on the acropolis in Athens. 
Ancient Greece, however, was never one country. Despite a common language and religion, the Greeks lived in separate city-states which were independent and self-ruling. Some city-states surrounded an acropolis, which was a citadel built on a mound where they constructed temples and the buildings of government. The city-states also set up colonies elsewhere in the Mediterranean, including the Aegean islands, the west coast of Asia Minor, southern Italy and north Africa.
One of the most well-known city-states of ancient Greece is Athens. Here the arts, philosophy and democracy flourished.  In fact, the ideas developed by the people of Athens in ancient times have had a huge influence on the modern western world.